.
>> MORE TROUBLE FOR ALEXANDRIA
OCASIO-CORTEZ'S CAMPAIGN,
ACCUSED OF ILLEGALLY FUNDING --
LET ME BACK UP.
FROM UNBALANCE SHEET TO COMPANY
THAT SHE RAN WITH CHIEF OF
STAFF.
SHE PUT HER BOYFRIEND RILEY ON
THE PAYROLL AND CORTEZ FACES
ETHIC CHARGES FOR GIVING
BOYFRIEND A CONGRESSIONAL E-MAIL
ACCOUNT.
THIS SAYS SOCIALIST LIKE CORTEZ
AND BERNIE SANDERS WANT TO TAKE
THE U.S. IN A RABBIT HOLE OF
SOCIAL MISSION, THEY ARE
GRABBING YOUR MONEY, THEY ARE
REALLY SECRETIVE ABOUT THEIR OWN
DEALINGS, BERNIE SANDERS HAS
BEEN CRITICIZED FOR ALMOST THE
SAME THING.
HE'S STILL NOT RELEASING TAX
RETURNS, HILLARY CLINTON DID,
BARACK OBAMA DID, JIMMY CARTER
AND EVEN RICHARD NIXON RELEASED
TAX RETURNS, SO WE KNOW THAT
BERNIE SANDERS EARNS MORE THAN A
MILLION DOLLARS, 4% INCOME OH
CHARITY, PENSION FROM THE CITY
OF BURLINGTON, HE HAS QUESTIONS
ABOUT HIS FINANCES TOO.
LET'S BRING IN AN EXPERT.
CAMPAIGN LEGAL CENTER SENIOR
DIRECTOR, THIS IS WHAT'S GOING
ON, WE WANT TO KNOW WHY BERNIE
SANDERS WON'T RELEASE TAX
RETURNS, HIS CAMPAIGN HAD HIS
WIFE LAST DECADE GETTING
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS IN
CONSULTING FEES, IS THAT WHY
HE'S NOT RELEASING HIS RETURNS?
>> WELL, EVERY PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE CAN RELEASE TAX
RETURNS, PERIOD, AS IT RELATES
TO SPOUSAL INCOME OR FAMILY
INCOME THERE ARE FAIRLY STRICT
RULES ABOUT HOW CANDIDATES PAY
THEIR SPOUSES, FAMILY MEMBERS,
IT HAS TO BE FOR CERTAIN, ALL OF
THAT IS GREATER GOAL OF LIMITING
OPPORTUNITIES FOR CORRUPTION
THAT CAN COME THROUGH FAMILY
MEMBERS OR CANDIDATES.
LIZ: THE BLACK-BOX OPERATION
THAT BERNIE SANDERS HAS USE
TODAY PRIOR CAMPAIGN INVOLVED
THE MEDIA, $65,000 OVER A 5-YEAR
PERIOD, SHE AND BERNIE SANDERS'
WIFE, SO-CALLED CONSULTING, SAME
THING WITH OCASIO-CORTEZ
OPERATION.
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS PAID IN
CONSULTING OUT OF BLACK-BOX
COMPANIES, WHAT'S GOING ON HERE?
>> WELL, IF YOU OPERATE A PAC, A
GROUP THAT'S DEDICATED TO TRYING
TO GET ELECT TODAY OFFICE, YOU
HAVE TO PUBLICLY DISCLOSE HOW
YOU SPEND ALL OF YOUR FUNDS AND
THAT'S AN IMPORTANT LAW.
THAT LAW GIVES VOTERS AND
JOURNALISTS AND WATCHDOG GROUPS
AND LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENTS THE
OPPORTUNITY TO FOLLOW THE MONEY
AS IT GOES THROUGH OUR CAMPAIGN
FINANCE SYSTEM.
WHAT HAPPENED HERE IS THAT YOU
HAD A PACK THAT DISCLOSED HOW IT
SPENT THE MONEY BUT WHAT THE
DISCLOSURE SAID THAT A LARGE
AMOUNT, HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
DOLLARS HAVE BEEN PAID OUT TO A
COMPANY AFFILIATED WITH THE PAC
AND NORMALLY THAT SORT OF
ARRANGEMENT HAS ALARM BELLS
BECAUSE WHAT YOU'RE WORRIED
ABOUT IS THE PAC IS RAISING
MONEY TELLING PEOPLE IT'S FOR
POLITICAL PURPOSES AND PAY TO GO
AFFILIATE COMPANY THAT THEN PAYS
THEM, IN A SENSE POCKETING THE
PAC'S MONEY.
LIZ: ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ
HAS BEEN ACCUSED OF THAT, THE
PEOPLE INVOLVED IN THE BERNIE
SANDERS' CAMPAIGN ACCUSED OF
VIRTUALLY THE SAME THING LAST
DECADE.
I MEAN, THAT BASICALLY THE HOUSE
THAT'S RUNNING HIS TV AND MEDIA
AD SPENDS $82 MILLION THERE,
THEIR FORMER ASSOCIATES OF HIS
WIFE JANE AND JANE WAS GETTING
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS IN
COMMISSIONS ON THE AD BUYS, SO
IT FELT LIKE AGAIN THAT BERNIE
SANDERS' WIFE THAT THERE WAS
SELF-DEALING INVOLVED THERE,
SAME WITH OCASIO-CORTEZ'S
BOYFRIEND BEING PUT ON THE
PAYROLL OF THE SHELL COMPANY.
>> LOOK, THERE ARE RULES ABOUT
AND FAIRLY STRICT ABOUT HOW A
PAC OR A CAMPAIGN CAN PAY FAMILY
MEMBERS OF THE CANDIDATE TO
PREVENT THE OPPORTUNITIES FOR
CORRUPTION THAT ARISE FROM THAT
AND CANDIDATE TO BE PARTICULARLY
TRANSPARENT WHEN IT COMES TO
PAYMENTS MADE TO FAMILY MEMBERS.
LIZ: IS THE FEDERAL ELECTION
COMMISSION GOING TO STEP IN HERE
AND IF BERNIE SANDERS DOES IT
AGAIN, WILL IT STEP IN THERE?
AGAIN, HE'S NOT RELEASING TAX
RETURNS, THE QUESTION IS IT
FEELS LIKE HE'S HIDING
SOMETHING.
>> SEC DOESN'T HAVE JURISDICTION
OVER TAX RETURNS BUT AS TO THE
-- AS TO THE CAMPAIGN FINANCE
MATTERS, THE PROBLEM IS THAT THE
SEC IS A COMPLETELY
DYSFUNCTIONAL AND BROKEN AGENCY.
IT DOESN'T ENFORCE THE LAW EVEN
IN THE MOST CLEAR-CUT CASES,
BORDERLINE CASES THE SEC IS
ESSENTIALLY NONFUNCTIONAL SO I
WOULD NOT HOLD MY BREATH WAITING
FOR SEC ACTION IN ANY PARTICULAR
CAMPAIGN FINANCE.
LIZ: MEANWHILE ALONG THE WAY ALL
PECULIAR THINGS ARE COMING UP, 2
YEARS AGO JANE AND BERNIE
SANDERS FORMED A NONPROFIT,
RAISED HALF A MILLION BUCKS, HE
HAD NOTHING TO SHOW FOR IT, NO
ACCOMPLISHMENTS, THE FAMILY IS
ASSOCIATED WITH THE NONPROFIT,
YOUR TAKE ON THAT?
>> RIGHT, WELL, IT'S
PARTICULARLY DANGEROUS FOR
NONPROFITS, 501C3 TO BE CLOSELY
ALIGNED WITH CANDIDATES.
HUGE OPPORTUNITIES FOR
CORRUPTION THERE BECAUSE UNLIKE
CAMPAIGNS, NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS AREN'T SUBJECT TO
CONTRIBUTION LIMITS, SO YOU
COULD GIVE A MILLION DOLLARS IF
YOU WERE TRYING TO CURRY FAVOR
WITH A CANDIDATE, GIVING A
MILLION DOLLARS AND ENGAGE IN
SERIOUS CORRUPTION THAT WAY.
THE LAWS ABOUT COORDINATION
BETWEEN NONPROFITS AND CAMPAIGNS
ARE VERY WEAK, THEY NEED TO BE
STRENGTHEN SIGNIFICANTLY TO
PREVENT THE MONEY FROM
ESSENTIALLY BLEEDING OVER FROM
THE NONPROFIT SIDE TO THE
CAMPAIGN SIDE.